Knock Knock


Overview
Create a version of the famous "Hello World" project - with a twist. Write a program that asks the user's name, greets the user by name, and tells a knock-knock joke.




Purpose
The purpose of this lab is to get you acquainted with programming in general, and Python in particular. The program itself is not complex, but there are many factors to writing it successfully:

* Installing Python on your system
* Configuring an editor (IDLE or something more sophisticated)
* Running your program
* Turning in the code



The Program
The program itself will be trivially simple. Following is a sample transcript (User input is in blue for this example, but your program will not ned to do that.)
Hi, What's your name?
Andy 
Here's a joke, Andy: 
Knock knock 
who's there? 
Luke 
Luke who? 
Luke through the keyhole and you'll find out!

A suitable version of the program will do the following:

Ask the user his or her name
Repeat the user's name in a greeting
Engage in an 'interactive' knock knock joke
Take input for the user's part of the joke, but you don't really have to do anything with the information.

The program will require the following elements:

Appropriate documentation.  While you're beginning, describe what every single line does BEFORE you write it.  Later you will not need to have such detailed documentation.
A variable (or perhaps more)
Several input statements
Several output statements
Formatted printing with variables embedded into text



Blackbelt extension
Do anything you want to spruce up the joke. Maybe tell multiple jokes, check user input, do something more interesting with the user input, add a loop and a menu, or whatever else you want. Remember to do your blackbelt as a separate file, and you may not start the black belt version if you haven't finished the main assignment. Recitation leaders will focus on standard assignments before helping people with blackbelt extensions. The point of a blackbelt is to see how you can push yourself a little beyond the requirements if you are ready to do so.



