Overview:
Write a program that will accept a phrase and convert it into code by substituting letters according to a key.

Input:
There will be three main inputs in this program. One being selecting a option which will come from the menu function. The next is when selecting encode,
inputing a word to encode for the encoding function. Similarly, when selecting decode typing a word to decode for the decoding function. These last two 
strings will be changed to upper case to deal with only one case. 

Output: 
The program should be able to produce an encryption of plain text and also be able decypher encrypted text. A successful run will be able to encrypt a 
plain text and ,using the now encrypted word, decyper the word back to the original plain text.It will be easy to tell if something is wron gif it does 
not return the same initial plain text. Also, if the encrpyted or decyphered text doesn't match to the key then something went wrong as well.

Procedure:
Create a function called menu without parameters that returns a response
Within the function -
output the text " Secret Decoder Menu 0) Quit 1) Encode 2) Decode "
ask the user "What do you want to do" and store result in variable named response 

Create a function called encode passing the value plain the returns a string
Withing the function - 
create a variable called code with initial value ""
convert plain to upper case
begin with sentry at value plain
(code to repeat)
create a variable called position that finds the character position in the alpha string
create a variable called encode that is assigned the character in that position but from the key.
create a variable called code that stores the character and adds it each time
return the code

Create a function called decode passing the value coded the returns a string
Withing the function - 
create a variable called code with initial value ""
convert coded to upper case
begin with sentry at value coded
(code to repeat)
create a variable called position that finds the character position in the key string
create a variable called decode that is assigned the character in that position but from the alpha key.
create a variable called decoded that stores the character and adds to it each time
return the code
